docs/content/Schema/Reference/joins.mdx, before:

---
title: Joins
permalink: /schema/reference/joins
scope: cubejs
category: Data Schema
subCategory: Reference
menuOrder: 11
proofread: 06/18/2019
redirect_from:
  - /joins
---

The `joins` parameter declares a block to define relationships between cubes. It
allows users to access and compare fields from two or more cubes at the same
time.

```javascript
cube('MyCube', {
  joins: {
    TargetCubeName: {
      relationship: `belongsTo` || `hasMany` || `hasOne`,
      sql: `SQL ON clause`,
    },
  },
});
```

All joins are generated as `LEFT JOIN`. The cube which defines the join serves
as a main table, and any cubes referenced inside the `joins` property are used
in the `LEFT JOIN` clause. Learn more about direction of joins
[here][ref-schema-advanced-join-direction].

The semantics of `INNER JOIN` can be achieved with additional filtering. For
example, a simple check of whether the column value `IS NOT NULL` by using [set
filter][ref-restapi-query-filter-op-set] satisfies this requirement.

## Naming

The name of a join should match the [name of the external
cube][ref-schema-cube-naming]. For example when a `Products` cube is being
joined on to an `Orders` cube, we would define the join as follows:

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  joins: {
    Products: {
      relationship: `belongsTo`,
      sql: `${CUBE.id} = Products.orderId`,
    },
  },
});
```

## Parameters

### <--{"id" : "Parameters"}--> relationship

`relationship` enables you to describe the join relationship between joined
cubes. It’s important to properly define the type of relationship in order for
Cube.js to accurately calculate measures.

<InfoBox>

It is very important to define the correct order of cubes in a join. It affects
data in the result-set greatly. The basic cube represents the left entity in a
join, all others would be right. That means that all rows of the left cube are
selected, while rows of the right depend on the condition. For more information
and specific examples, please read about [join directions
here][ref-schema-advanced-join-direction].

</InfoBox>

The three possible values for a relationship are:

#### hasOne

A `hasOne` relationship indicates a one-to-one connection with another cube.
This relationship indicates that the one row in the cube can match only one row
in the joined cube. For example, in a model containing users and user profiles,
the users cube would have the following join:

```javascript
cube('Users', {
  joins: {
    Profile: {
      relationship: `hasOne`,
      sql: `${Users}.id = ${Profile}.user_id`,
    },
  },
});
```

#### hasMany

A `hasMany` relationship indicates a one-to-many connection with another cube.
You'll often find this relationship on the "other side" of a `belongsTo`
relationship. This relationship indicates that the one row in the cube can match
many rows in the joined cube. For example, in a model containing authors and
books, the authors cube would have the following join:

```javascript
cube('Authors', {
  joins: {
    Books: {
      relationship: `hasMany`,
      sql: `${Authors}.id = ${Books}.author_id`,
    },
  },
});
```

#### belongsTo

A `belongsTo` relationship indicates a many-to-one connection with another cube.
You’ll often find this relationship on the “other side” of a `hasMany`
relationship. This relationship indicates that the one row of the declaring cube
matches a row in the joined instance, while the joined instance can have many
rows in the declaring cube. For example, in a model containing orders and
customers, the orders cube would have the following join:

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  joins: {
    Customers: {
      relationship: `belongsTo`,
      sql: `${Orders}.customer_id = ${Customers}.id`,
    },
  },
});
```

### <--{"id" : "Parameters"}--> sql

`sql` is necessary to indicate a related column between cubes. It is important
to properly specify a matching column when creating joins. Take a look at the
example below:

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  joins: {
    Customers: {
      relationship: `belongsTo`,
      // The `customer_id` field on `Orders` corresponds to the
      // `id` field on `Customers`
      sql: `${Orders}.customer_id = ${Customers}.id`,
    },
  },
});
```

## Setting a Primary Key

In order for a join to work, it is necessary to define a `primaryKey` as
specified below. It is a requirement when a join is defined so that Cube.js can
handle row multiplication issues.

Let's imagine you want to calculate `Order Amount` by `Order Item Product Name`.
In this case, `Order` rows will be multiplied by the `Order Item` join due to
the `hasMany` relationship. In order to produce correct results, Cube.js will
select distinct primary keys from `Order` first and then will join these primary
keys with `Order` to get the correct `Order Amount` sum result. Please note that
`primaryKey` should be defined in the `dimensions` section.

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  dimensions: {
    customerId: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `number`,
      primaryKey: true,
    },
  },
});
```

<InfoBox>

Setting `primaryKey` to `true` will change the default value of the `shown`
parameter to `false`. If you still want `shown` to be `true` — set it manually.

</InfoBox>

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  dimensions: {
    customerId: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `number`,
      primaryKey: true,
      shown: true,
    },
  },
});
```

If you don't have a single column in a cube's table that can act as a primary
key, you can create a composite primary key as shown below.

<WarningBox>

The example uses Postgres string concatenation; note that SQL may be different
depending on your database.

</WarningBox>

```javascript
cube('Users', {
  dimensions: {
    id: {
      sql: `${CUBE}.user_id || '-' || ${CUBE}.signup_week || '-' || ${CUBE}.activity_week`,
      type: `string`,
      primaryKey: true,
    },
  },
});
```

## CUBE reference

When you have several joined cubes, you should accurately use columns’ names to
avoid any mistakes. One way to make no mistakes is to use the `${CUBE}`
reference. It allows you to specify columns’ names in cubes without any
ambiguity. During the implementation of the query, this reference will be used
as an alias for a basic cube. Take a look at the following example:

```javascript
cube('Users', {
  dimensions: {
    name: {
      sql: `${CUBE}.name`,
      type: `string`,
    },
  },
});
```

## Transitive joins

<WarningBox>

Join graph is directed and `A-B` join is different from `B-A`.
[Learn more about it here](direction-of-joins).

</WarningBox>

Cube.js automatically takes care of transitive joins. For example if you have
the following schema:

```javascript
cube(`A`, {
  // ...
  joins: {
    B: {
      sql: `${A}.b_id = ${B}.id`,
      relationship: `belongsTo`,
    },
  },

  measures: {
    count: {
      type: `count`,
    },
  },
});

cube(`B`, {
  // ...
  joins: {
    C: {
      sql: `${B}.c_id = ${C}.id`,
      relationship: `belongsTo`,
    },
  },
});

cube(`C`, {
  // ...

  dimensions: {
    category: {
      sql: `category`,
      type: `string`,
    },
  },
});
```

and the following query:

```json
{
  "measures": ["A.count"],
  "dimensions": ["C.category"]
}
```

Joins `A-B` and `B-C` will be resolved automatically. Cube.js uses [Dijkstra
algorithm][wiki-djikstra-alg] to find join path between cubes given requested
members.

[ref-schema-advanced-join-direction]: /direction-of-joins
[ref-schema-cube-naming]: /schema/reference/cube#naming
[ref-restapi-query-filter-op-set]: /query-format#set
[wiki-djikstra-alg]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dijkstra%27s_algorithm

Commit message:

docs(schema): create Working with Joins page under Fundamentals section
Also fixes example for direction of joins [sc-1070]

Co-authored-by: Artyom Keydunov <artyom@cube.dev>
Co-authored-by: Ray Paik <ray@cube.dev>

docs/content/Schema/Reference/joins.mdx, after:

---
title: Joins
permalink: /schema/reference/joins
scope: cubejs
category: Data Schema
subCategory: Reference
menuOrder: 11
proofread: 06/18/2019
redirect_from:
  - /joins
---

The `joins` parameter declares a block to define relationships between cubes. It
allows users to access and compare fields from two or more cubes at the same
time.

```javascript
cube('MyCube', {
  joins: {
    TargetCubeName: {
      relationship: `belongsTo` || `hasMany` || `hasOne`,
      sql: `SQL ON clause`,
    },
  },
});
```

All joins are generated as `LEFT JOIN`. The cube which defines the join serves
as a main table, and any cubes referenced inside the `joins` property are used
in the `LEFT JOIN` clause. Learn more about direction of joins
[here][ref-schema-fundamentals-join-dir].

The semantics of `INNER JOIN` can be achieved with additional filtering. For
example, a simple check of whether the column value `IS NOT NULL` by using [set
filter][ref-restapi-query-filter-op-set] satisfies this requirement.

## Naming

The name of a join should match the [name of the external
cube][ref-schema-cube-naming]. For example when a `Products` cube is being
joined on to an `Orders` cube, we would define the join as follows:

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  joins: {
    Products: {
      relationship: `belongsTo`,
      sql: `${CUBE.id} = Products.orderId`,
    },
  },
});
```

## Parameters

### <--{"id" : "Parameters"}--> relationship

`relationship` enables you to describe the join relationship between joined
cubes. It’s important to properly define the type of relationship in order for
Cube.js to accurately calculate measures. The relationship does not need to be
defined on both cubes, but the definition can affect the [join
direction][ref-schema-fundamentals-join-dir].

<InfoBox>

It is very important to define the correct order of cubes in a join. It affects
data in the result-set greatly. The basic cube represents the left entity in a
join, all others would be right. That means that all rows of the left cube are
selected, while rows of the right depend on the condition. For more information
and specific examples, please read about [join directions
here][ref-schema-fundamentals-join-dir].

</InfoBox>

The three possible values for a relationship are:

#### hasOne

A `hasOne` relationship indicates a one-to-one connection with another cube.
This relationship indicates that the one row in the cube can match only one row
in the joined cube. For example, in a model containing users and user profiles,
the users cube would have the following join:

```javascript
cube('Users', {
  joins: {
    Profile: {
      relationship: `hasOne`,
      sql: `${Users}.id = ${Profile}.user_id`,
    },
  },
});
```

#### hasMany

A `hasMany` relationship indicates a one-to-many connection with another cube.
You'll often find this relationship on the "other side" of a `belongsTo`
relationship. This relationship indicates that the one row in the cube can match
many rows in the joined cube. For example, in a model containing authors and
books, the authors cube would have the following join:

```javascript
cube('Authors', {
  joins: {
    Books: {
      relationship: `hasMany`,
      sql: `${Authors}.id = ${Books}.author_id`,
    },
  },
});
```

#### belongsTo

A `belongsTo` relationship indicates a many-to-one connection with another cube.
You’ll often find this relationship on the “other side” of a `hasMany`
relationship. This relationship indicates that the one row of the declaring cube
matches a row in the joined instance, while the joined instance can have many
rows in the declaring cube. For example, in a model containing orders and
customers, the orders cube would have the following join:

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  joins: {
    Customers: {
      relationship: `belongsTo`,
      sql: `${Orders}.customer_id = ${Customers}.id`,
    },
  },
});
```

### <--{"id" : "Parameters"}--> sql

`sql` is necessary to indicate a related column between cubes. It is important
to properly specify a matching column when creating joins. Take a look at the
example below:

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  joins: {
    Customers: {
      relationship: `belongsTo`,
      // The `customer_id` field on `Orders` corresponds to the
      // `id` field on `Customers`
      sql: `${Orders}.customer_id = ${Customers}.id`,
    },
  },
});
```

## Setting a Primary Key

In order for a join to work, it is necessary to define a `primaryKey` as
specified below. It is a requirement when a join is defined so that Cube.js can
handle row multiplication issues.

Let's imagine you want to calculate `Order Amount` by `Order Item Product Name`.
In this case, `Order` rows will be multiplied by the `Order Item` join due to
the `hasMany` relationship. In order to produce correct results, Cube.js will
select distinct primary keys from `Order` first and then will join these primary
keys with `Order` to get the correct `Order Amount` sum result. Please note that
`primaryKey` should be defined in the `dimensions` section.

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  dimensions: {
    customerId: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `number`,
      primaryKey: true,
    },
  },
});
```

<InfoBox>

Setting `primaryKey` to `true` will change the default value of the `shown`
parameter to `false`. If you still want `shown` to be `true` — set it manually.

</InfoBox>

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  dimensions: {
    customerId: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `number`,
      primaryKey: true,
      shown: true,
    },
  },
});
```

If you don't have a single column in a cube's table that can act as a primary
key, you can create a composite primary key as shown below.

<WarningBox>

The example uses Postgres string concatenation; note that SQL may be different
depending on your database.

</WarningBox>

```javascript
cube('Users', {
  dimensions: {
    id: {
      sql: `${CUBE}.user_id || '-' || ${CUBE}.signup_week || '-' || ${CUBE}.activity_week`,
      type: `string`,
      primaryKey: true,
    },
  },
});
```

## CUBE reference

When you have several joined cubes, you should accurately use columns’ names to
avoid any mistakes. One way to make no mistakes is to use the `${CUBE}`
reference. It allows you to specify columns’ names in cubes without any
ambiguity. During the implementation of the query, this reference will be used
as an alias for a basic cube. Take a look at the following example:

```javascript
cube('Users', {
  dimensions: {
    name: {
      sql: `${CUBE}.name`,
      type: `string`,
    },
  },
});
```

## Transitive joins

<WarningBox>

Join graph is directed and `A-B` join is different from `B-A`.
[Learn more about it here](direction-of-joins).

</WarningBox>

Cube.js automatically takes care of transitive joins. For example if you have
the following schema:

```javascript
cube(`A`, {
  // ...
  joins: {
    B: {
      sql: `${A}.b_id = ${B}.id`,
      relationship: `belongsTo`,
    },
  },

  measures: {
    count: {
      type: `count`,
    },
  },
});

cube(`B`, {
  // ...
  joins: {
    C: {
      sql: `${B}.c_id = ${C}.id`,
      relationship: `belongsTo`,
    },
  },
});

cube(`C`, {
  // ...

  dimensions: {
    category: {
      sql: `category`,
      type: `string`,
    },
  },
});
```

and the following query:

```json
{
  "measures": ["A.count"],
  "dimensions": ["C.category"]
}
```

Joins `A-B` and `B-C` will be resolved automatically. Cube.js uses [Dijkstra
algorithm][wiki-djikstra-alg] to find join path between cubes given requested
members.

[ref-restapi-query-filter-op-set]: /query-format#set
[ref-schema-cube-naming]: /schema/reference/cube#naming
[ref-schema-fundamentals-join-dir]:
  /schema/fundamentals/joins#directions-of-joins
[wiki-djikstra-alg]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dijkstra%27s_algorithm
