docs/content/Cube.js-Backend/SQL-API.mdx, before:

---
title: SQL API
permalink: /backend/sql
category: Cube.js Backend
menuOrder: 3
---

<WarningBox heading={`🐣  Preview`}>

The Cube SQL connector is currently in Preview, and there may be changes in a
future version. Full support of the ANSI SQL standard is not guaranteed.

</WarningBox>

Cube SQL is a SQL emulation layer for Cube. It is extremely useful for
integrating with existing Business Intelligence (BI) tools such as [Apache
Superset][apache-superset], [Microsoft PowerBI][ms-powerbi] etc.

## Enabling the connector

To enable the Cube SQL connector, we first need to add a new environment
variable:

```dotenv
CUBEJS_SQL_PORT=3306
```

<InfoBox>

If you're running Cube with Docker Compose, remember to add a port mapping to
the Cube service for `CUBEJS_SQL_PORT`, for example:

```yaml
services:
  cube_api:
    ...
    ports:
      - 3306:3306 # Cube SQL API
```

</InfoBox>

Cube SQL uses the same JWTs as Cube, so we first need to create a JWT.
If the project uses `CUBEJS_API_SECRET`, then we can generate a JWT
token by running the following inside the project directory:

<InfoBox>

If custom JWK authentication is configured, then a JWT must be retrieved from the external identity provider.

</InfoBox>

```bash
$ npx cubejs-cli token
Warning. Option --user-context was deprecated and payload will be stored inside root instead of u
Generating Cube.js JWT token

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Use these manually generated tokens in production with caution.
  Please refer to https://cube.dev/docs/security for production security best practices.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expires in: 30 days
Payload: {}

Token: eyJhbGc***
````

Once the JWT has been generated, we can connect using the `mysql` client:

```bash
# Format: mysql -h <CUBE_IP> --port <CUBE_SQL_PORT> -u <JWT_STRING>
mysql -h 127.0.0.1 --port 3306 -u eyJhbGc...
```

Because MySQL does not support JWT authentication, Cube SQL retrieves the JWT
from the `username` parameter. Leave the `password` field empty.

## Querying Dimensions

Querying dimensions is straightforward, simply add any required fields to the
`SELECT` clause. Let's use a sample orders table from an e-commerce database:

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  ...,

  dimensions: {
    id: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `number`,
    },
    status: {
      sql: `status`,
      type: `string`
    },
  },
})
```

We can then execute the following queries through the Cube SQL connector:

```sql
SELECT id FROM Orders;
SELECT status FROM Orders;
```

## Querying Measures

Measures can similarly be queried through Cube SQL.

<InfoBox>

When applying aggregate functions to measures in a Cube SQL query, be sure to
use the right aggregation function for the measure. If the measure is of [type
`min`][ref-schema-ref-types-formats], then use the [`MIN()` SQL
function][mysql-docs-min], for example.

</InfoBox>

Let's examine the schema again:

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  ...,

  measures: {
    count: {
      type: `count`,
    },
    distinctCount: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `countDistinct`,
    },
    approxDistinctCount: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `countDistinctApprox`,
    },
    minValue: {
      sql: `min_value`,
      type: `min`
    },
    maxValue: {
      sql: `max_value`,
      type: `max`
    },
  },
})
```

As we can see, we have a mix of measure types in the above schema. To query
them, we could use the following SQL statements:

```sql
--- Both the following statements are equivalent
SELECT count FROM Orders
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Orders

--- Count distinct, and count distinct approx
--- Both the following statements are equivalent
SELECT distinctCount FROM Orders
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT distinctCount) FROM Orders

--- Both the following statements are equivalent
SELECT approxDistinctCount FROM Orders
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT approxDistinctCount) FROM Orders

--- Both the following statements are equivalent
SELECT minValue FROM Orders
SELECT MIN(minValue) FROM Orders

--- Both the following statements are equivalent
SELECT maxValue FROM Orders
SELECT MAX(maxValue) FROM Orders
```

## Querying Segments

Any segments defined in a schema can also be used in Cube SQL queries. Looking
at the schema below, we have one segment `isCompleted`:

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  ...,

  segments: {
    isCompleted: {
      sql: `${CUBE}.status = 'completed'`,
    },
  },
});
```

Segments must be used as `boolean` types in Cube SQL queries:

```sql
WHERE isCompleted = true
```

## Limitations

### SELECT

`SELECT` statements only support the following projections:

**`*` for all dimensions:**

```sql
SELECT * FROM Orders;
```

**A valid expression for a dimension or measure:**

```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Orders;
```

**A valid expression as an alias:**

```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) AS order_count FROM Orders;
```

### WHERE

Cube SQL supports most conditional checks for the `WHERE` clause.

**Comparison operators:**

```sql
WHERE price > 50
WHERE price >= 50 AND <= 100
```

**Boolean logic:**

```sql
WHERE isPaid = true
  AND isCompleted = false
  OR isReviewed = false
```

**`IN` operator:**:

```sql
WHERE status IN ('completed', 'shipped')
WHERE status NOT IN ('processing')
```

**`IS NULL`:**

```sql
WHERE completedAt IS NULL
WHERE completedAt IS NOT NULL
```

**`BETWEEN`:**

```sql
WHERE completedAt BETWEEN '2021-08-31' AND '2021-09-07'
WHERE createdAt NOT BETWEEN '2021-08-31' AND '2021-09-07'
```

**`LIKE`:**

```sql
WHERE name LIKE 'joe'
WHERE name NOT LIKE 'bloggs'
```

**Functions:**

Currently Cube SQL only supports [`STR_TO_DATE()`][mysql-docs-str-to-date].

### GROUP BY

`GROUP BY` clauses in SQL queries sent to Cube SQL are ignored; Cube SQL follows
the same rules as Cube. Any defined dimensions/measures will be grouped **by
default**, and currently there is no way to retrieve ungrouped results.

[apache-superset]: https://superset.apache.org/
[ms-powerbi]: https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-gb/
[mysql-docs-str-to-date]:
  https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/date-and-time-functions.html#function_str-to-date
[mysql-docs-min]:
  https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/aggregate-functions.html#function_min
[ref-schema-ref-types-formats]: /schema/reference/types-and-formats#min

Commit message:

docs(recipes): add new recipe for connecting Apache Superset to the Cube SQL connector

docs/content/Cube.js-Backend/SQL-API.mdx, after:

---
title: SQL API
permalink: /backend/sql
category: Cube.js Backend
menuOrder: 3
---

<WarningBox heading={`🐣  Preview`}>

The Cube SQL connector is currently in Preview, and there may be changes in a
future version. Full support of the ANSI SQL standard is not guaranteed.

</WarningBox>

Cube SQL is a SQL emulation layer for Cube. It is extremely useful for
integrating with existing Business Intelligence (BI) tools such as [Apache
Superset][superset], [Microsoft PowerBI][ms-powerbi] etc.

<InfoBox>

To see an example of Cube connecting to Apache Superset, check out [this
recipe][ref-recipe-cube-sql-superset].

</InfoBox>

## Enabling the connector

To enable the Cube SQL connector, we first need to add a new environment
variable:

```dotenv
CUBEJS_SQL_PORT=3306
```

<InfoBox>

If you're running Cube with Docker Compose, remember to add a port mapping to
the Cube service for `CUBEJS_SQL_PORT`, for example:

```yaml
services:
  cube_api:
    ...
    ports:
      - 3306:3306 # Cube SQL API
```

</InfoBox>

Cube SQL uses the same JWTs as Cube, so we first need to create a JWT. If the
project uses `CUBEJS_API_SECRET`, then we can generate a JWT token by running
the following inside the project directory:

<InfoBox>

If custom JWK authentication is configured, then a JWT must be retrieved from
the external identity provider.

</InfoBox>

```bash
$ npx cubejs-cli token
Warning. Option --user-context was deprecated and payload will be stored inside root instead of u
Generating Cube.js JWT token

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Use these manually generated tokens in production with caution.
  Please refer to https://cube.dev/docs/security for production security best practices.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expires in: 30 days
Payload: {}

Token: eyJhbGc***
```

Once the JWT has been generated, we can connect using the `mysql` client:

```bash
# Format: mysql -h <CUBE_IP> --port <CUBE_SQL_PORT> -u <JWT_STRING>
mysql -h 127.0.0.1 --port 3306 -u eyJhbGc...
```

Because MySQL does not support JWT authentication, Cube SQL retrieves the JWT
from the `username` parameter. Leave the `password` field empty.

## Querying Dimensions

Querying dimensions is straightforward, simply add any required fields to the
`SELECT` clause. Let's use a sample orders table from an e-commerce database:

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  ...,

  dimensions: {
    id: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `number`,
    },
    status: {
      sql: `status`,
      type: `string`
    },
  },
})
```

We can then execute the following queries through the Cube SQL connector:

```sql
SELECT id FROM Orders;
SELECT status FROM Orders;
```

## Querying Measures

Measures can similarly be queried through Cube SQL.

<InfoBox>

When applying aggregate functions to measures in a Cube SQL query, be sure to
use the right aggregation function for the measure. If the measure is of [type
`min`][ref-schema-ref-types-formats], then use the [`MIN()` SQL
function][mysql-docs-min], for example.

</InfoBox>

Let's examine the schema again:

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  ...,

  measures: {
    count: {
      type: `count`,
    },
    distinctCount: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `countDistinct`,
    },
    approxDistinctCount: {
      sql: `id`,
      type: `countDistinctApprox`,
    },
    minValue: {
      sql: `min_value`,
      type: `min`
    },
    maxValue: {
      sql: `max_value`,
      type: `max`
    },
  },
})
```

As we can see, we have a mix of measure types in the above schema. To query
them, we could use the following SQL statements:

```sql
--- Both the following statements are equivalent
SELECT count FROM Orders
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Orders

--- Count distinct, and count distinct approx
--- Both the following statements are equivalent
SELECT distinctCount FROM Orders
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT distinctCount) FROM Orders

--- Both the following statements are equivalent
SELECT approxDistinctCount FROM Orders
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT approxDistinctCount) FROM Orders

--- Both the following statements are equivalent
SELECT minValue FROM Orders
SELECT MIN(minValue) FROM Orders

--- Both the following statements are equivalent
SELECT maxValue FROM Orders
SELECT MAX(maxValue) FROM Orders
```

## Querying Segments

Any segments defined in a schema can also be used in Cube SQL queries. Looking
at the schema below, we have one segment `isCompleted`:

```javascript
cube('Orders', {
  ...,

  segments: {
    isCompleted: {
      sql: `${CUBE}.status = 'completed'`,
    },
  },
});
```

Segments must be used as `boolean` types in Cube SQL queries:

```sql
WHERE isCompleted = true
```

## Limitations

### SELECT

`SELECT` statements only support the following projections:

**`*` for all dimensions:**

```sql
SELECT * FROM Orders;
```

**A valid expression for a dimension or measure:**

```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Orders;
```

**A valid expression as an alias:**

```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) AS order_count FROM Orders;
```

### WHERE

Cube SQL supports most conditional checks for the `WHERE` clause.

**Comparison operators:**

```sql
WHERE price > 50
WHERE price >= 50 AND <= 100
```

**Boolean logic:**

```sql
WHERE isPaid = true
  AND isCompleted = false
  OR isReviewed = false
```

**`IN` operator:**:

```sql
WHERE status IN ('completed', 'shipped')
WHERE status NOT IN ('processing')
```

**`IS NULL`:**

```sql
WHERE completedAt IS NULL
WHERE completedAt IS NOT NULL
```

**`BETWEEN`:**

```sql
WHERE completedAt BETWEEN '2021-08-31' AND '2021-09-07'
WHERE createdAt NOT BETWEEN '2021-08-31' AND '2021-09-07'
```

**`LIKE`:**

```sql
WHERE name LIKE 'joe'
WHERE name NOT LIKE 'bloggs'
```

**Functions:**

Currently Cube SQL only supports [`STR_TO_DATE()`][mysql-docs-str-to-date].

### GROUP BY

`GROUP BY` clauses in SQL queries sent to Cube SQL are ignored; Cube SQL follows
the same rules as Cube. Any defined dimensions/measures will be grouped **by
default**, and currently there is no way to retrieve ungrouped results.

[superset]: https://superset.apache.org/
[ms-powerbi]: https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-gb/
[mysql-docs-str-to-date]:
  https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/date-and-time-functions.html#function_str-to-date
[mysql-docs-min]:
  https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/aggregate-functions.html#function_min
[ref-schema-ref-types-formats]: /schema/reference/types-and-formats#min
[ref-recipe-cube-sql-superset]: /recipes/using-apache-superset-with-cube-sql
